[doc] Refactor kernels and functions (#5943)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/lang/articles/kernels/syntax.md

# Kernels and functions

Taichi is embedded in Python, the code you have written for Taichi look like valid Python code, hence we need a way to differentiate the code for Taichi from the code for Python. We use the two decorators `@ti.kernel` and `@ti.func` for this:

+ Functions decorated with `@ti.kernel` are called Taichi kernels (called kernel for short).
+ Functions decorated with `@ti.func` are called Taichi functions.

> Let's see an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call Taichi kernel directly from Python code. You can also call Taichi functions from Taichi kernels, but not directly from Python code.
Let's see an example:
```

    return 1.0 / (x * x)

@ti.kernel
def partial_sum(n: int) -> float:  # a kernel
    total = 0.0
    for i in range(1, n + 1):
        total += inv_square(n)
    return total
```

In the above code, the function `inv_square` is a Taichi function since it's decorated by `@ti.func`, while the function `partial_sum` is a kernel since it's decorated by `@ti.kernel`. The Taichi function `inv_square` is called by the kernel `partial_sum`.

You may have noticed that the argument and return in the kernel `partial_sum` are both type hinted, while those in the Taichi function `inv_square` are not. In native Python, type hinting is a suggested but not mandatory syntax, but in the Taichi language *this is a mandatory syntax*: you must add type hints for arguments and returns of a kernel. When there are no arguments (or returns) in a kernel, the corresponding type hinting can be omitted.

Another point worth mentioning is, if you try to call `inv_square` out of the Taichi scope, Taichi will raise a syntax error. For example:

```python
import taichi as ti
ti.init(arch=ti.cpu)

@ti.func
def inv_square(x):
    return 1.0 / (x * x)

print(inv_square(1.0))  # syntax error!
```

> Here by "out of the Taichi scope" we mean the scope that is not inside a kernel or a Taichi function. We shall also use the term *Python scope* for short of this.

Reviewer: Let's highlight the definition of Taichi/Python scope :-)

    return 1.0 / (x * x)

@ti.kernel
def partial_sum(n: int) -> float:  # a kernel
    total = 0.0
    for i in range(1, n + 1):
        total += inv_square(n)
    return total
```

In the above code, the function `inv_square` is a Taichi function since it's decorated by `@ti.func`, while the function `partial_sum` is a kernel since it's decorated by `@ti.kernel`. The Taichi function `inv_square` is called by the kernel `partial_sum`.

You may have noticed that the argument and return value in the **kernel** `partial_sum` are both type hinted, while those in the **Taichi function** `inv_square` are not. In native Python, type hinting is a suggested but not mandatory syntax, but in the Taichi language *this is a mandatory syntax*: you must add type hints for arguments and returned values of a kernel. When there are no arguments or `return` statement in a kernel, the corresponding type hinting can be omitted.

Another point worth mentioning is, if you try to call `inv_square` out of the Taichi scope, Taichi will raise a syntax error. For example:

```python
import taichi as ti
ti.init(arch=ti.cpu)

@ti.func
def inv_square(x):
    return 1.0 / (x * x)

> print(inv_square(1.0))  # syntax error!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print(inv_square(1.0))  # Syntax error!
```

```

Here by "out of the Taichi scope" we mean the scope that is not inside a kernel or a Taichi function. We shall also use the term *Python scope* for short of this.

:::tip IMPORTANT

We give the following definitions:

1. The code inside a kernel or a Taichi function is in the **Taichi scope**. The code in the Taichi scope is compiled by Taichi's runtime and executed in parallel on CPU or GPU devices for high-performance computation.

>    Taichi scope corresponds to the device side in CUDA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The Taichi scope corresponds to the device side in CUDA.
```

2. Code outside of the Taichi scope is in the **Python scope**. The code in the Python scope is native Python and executed by Python's virtual machine, not by Taichi's runtime.

>    Python scope corresponds to the host side in CUDA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The Python scope corresponds to the host side in CUDA.
```

:::

As you have seen, there are a few differences between kernels and Taichi functions. We now explain their differences and the roles they play in a program and in more detail.

## Kernel

> A kernel is the entry point from which Taichi's runtime takes control and the smallest unit for runtime execution. You can define multiple kernels in your program, and these kernels are *independent* from each other. You call a kernel the same way you call a Python function, and you are allowed to switch back and forth between Taichi's runtime and Python's virtual machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the smallest execution unit in Taichi, a kernel is the entry point from which Taichi's runtime takes control. You call a kernel the same way you call a Python function and can switch back and forth between Taichi's runtime and Python's virtual machine.
```

For example you can call our kernel function `partial_sum` in the above section from inside a Python function:

```python
def main():
    print(partial_sum(100))
    print(partial_sum(1000))

main()
```

When there are more than one kernel in a program, Taichi will compile and execute them in the order they are called. The compiled kernels are stored in the cache so that subsequent calls won't invoke re-compilations.

:::caution WARNING

> You must *not* call a kernel from inside another kernel or from inside a Taichi function. You can only call a kernel directly or from inside a native Python function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must *not* call a kernel from inside another kernel or from inside a Taichi function. You can only call a kernel directly or from inside a native Python function. In other words, you can only call a kernel from inside the Python scope.
```

        total += inv_square(n)
    return total
```

In the code above, `inv_square()` is a Taichi function because it is decorated by `@ti.func`, while `partial_sum()` is a kernel because it is decorated by `@ti.kernel`. The Taichi function (former) is called by the kernel (latter).

You may have noticed that the argument and the return value in the **kernel** `partial_sum()` are both type-hinted, but those in the **Taichi function** `inv_square()` are not. Here comes an important difference between Python and Taichi. In native Python code, type hinting is recommended but not mandatory. But Taichi makes it *compulsory* that kernels must take type-hinted arguments and return type-hinted values. The only exception where you can leave out a type hint in a kernel is that the kernel does not have an argument or a `return` statement.

It is worth your attention that Taichi will raise a syntax error if you try to call `inv_square()` directly from the native Python code (i.e., out of the Taichi scope).
For example:

```python
import taichi as ti
ti.init(arch=ti.cpu)

@ti.func
def inv_square(x):
    return 1.0 / (x * x)

print(inv_square(1.0))  # Syntax error!
```

> Here by "out of the Taichi scope" we mean the scope that is not inside a kernel or a Taichi function. We shall also use the term *Python scope* for short of this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Taichi function should have fallen in the Taichi scope, a concept as opposed to the "Python scope". 
```

## Taichi function

Taichi functions are the building blocks of a kernel. **You must call a Taichi function from inside a kernel or from inside another Taichi function**. All Taichi functions are force-inlined. Therefore, no runtime recursion is allowed.

Let's see an example:

```python
# a normal python function
def foo_py():
    print("I'm a python function")

@ti.func
def foo_1():
    print("I'm a taichi function called by another taichi function")

@ti.func
def foo_2():
    print("I'm a taichi function called by a kernel")
    foo_1()

@ti.kernel
def foo_kernel():
    print("I'm a kernel calling a taichi function")
    foo_2()

foo_py()
#foo_func() # You cannot call a taichi function from within the python scope
foo_kernel()
```

### Arguments

A Taichi function can have multiple arguments, supporting scalar, `ti.Matrix/ti.Vector`, `ti.types.ndarray()`, `ti.template()`, `ti.field` and `ti.Struct` as argument types. Note that the restrictions applied to a kernel's arguments do not apply here:

- You are *not* required (but it is still recommended) to type hint arguments.
- You can have *an unlimited* number of elements in the arguments.

### Return values

> The return values of a Taichi function can be scalar, `ti.Matrix`, `ti.Vector`, `ti.Struct`, and more. Note that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The return values of a Taichi function can be scalars, `ti.Matrix`, `ti.Vector`, `ti.Struct`, or others. Note that:
```
